Renal carcinoma is a common malignancy of the urinary system and accounts for 2–3% of adult malignancies (Siegel et al., 2017). Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for about 90% of renal cancers, the vast majority (70–85%) of which are clear cell subtypes (Cairns, 2010). RCC can be divided into 4 pathological stages according to tumor size, the extend of invasion and metastasis (Motzer et al., 2015). Surgery treatment is effective for localized RCC, however, once the RCC becomes metastatic the survival rate of patients will drop sharply. In addition, about 30% of patients with RCC had metastasis when diagnosed. The standard treatment for localized RCC is surgery including radical or partial nephrectomy due to its insensitive to radiotherapy and chemotherapy (Motzer et al., 1996). For metastatic RCC, immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon (IFN) was once the standard treatment, but it had limited curative effects and strong side effects (Negrier et al., 1998). Targeted therapies including sorafenib (Hutson et al., 2010) and sunitinib (Motzer et al., 2006) were approved for metastatic RCC in 2005 and 2006 respectively, with better effects and fewer side effects compared with immunotherapy. However, targeted therapies were still limited and prone to drug resistance (Coppin et al., 2011; Ljungberg et al., 2015). Therefore, more effective diagnosis biomarkers and therapeutic targets are in urgent need.



 Surgical excision is the standard treatment for localized ccRCC; however, 30% of ccRCC patients have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis (3) and 30% of patients with localized disease eventually develop metastases (4,5). The number of available treatment for metastatic ccRCC has increased over the past decade, particularly, immunotherapy and targeted therapy have improved the outlook for metastatic ccRCC. However the 5-year survival and mortality rates remain poor (6,7).





RCC is a het-erogeneous group of malignant tu-mors consisting of various subtypesthat areclassified based on morpholog-ical and genetic features. Of these sub-types the clear cell subtype or ccRCC ismost common, accounting for approxi-mately 80% of allrenal neoplasms.2


Kidney cancer accounts for ≈2% of new cancers diagnosed worldwide and its incidence appears to be rising. It is the deadliest urological malignancy, with an estimated 5‐year survival rate in the range 50–60% 1. In total, 80–90% of kidney cancers develop in the renal parenchyma and are referred to as RCC. This malignancy has several subtypes, each derived from various parts of the nephron, with each presenting distinct genetic characteristics, histological features and clinical phenotypes. The most common subtype of RCC is the conventional clear cell type (ccRCC), accounting for ≈75% of cases. Recent progress in genetics has enabled the discovery of alterations in different metabolic pathways and, for kidney cancer, as with other neoplasms, the benefits of molecular profiling research have already been incorporated into clinical oncology. Development of targeted therapies has changed the therapeutic possibilities in metastatic RCC from 2006 onward and further information is awaited from this genomic approach for tumour classification, prognostic markers and predictive indicators of response to treatment, as well as personal susceptibility of developing cancer when exposed to risk factors.


There are 57,000 cases of kidney cancer diag-nosed in the United States annually and nearly13,000 deaths caused by this disease each year(1).  Kidney  cancer  is  the  seventh  most  com-mon cancer in men and the ninth most com-mon cancer in women (1). The incidence of kid-ney cancer, unlike that of other genitourinarymalignancies, is rapidly increasing at 2.5% peryear. The rising incidence of kidney cancer canonly partly be explained by the increased useof imaging modalities such as magnetic reso-nance imaging, computed tomography, and ul-trasound (2). Not only localized disease but alsoadvanced disease is increasingly common. Themortality rate for this disease is also on the rise,suggesting that the increasing incidence is notmerely driven by improved detection of smalltumors (2).Kidney cancer is not a single disease; it ismade up of a number of different types of cancerthat occur in the kidney. Each is caused by a dif-ferent gene, follows a different clinical course,has a different histology, and responds differ-ently to therapy (3). Patients who present witha localized kidney tumor (TNM Stage I) have a96% five-year survival. However, patients whopresent with advanced disease (TNM Stage IV)have only a 26% five-year survival (4). The de-velopment of novel therapeutic approaches thattarget the kidney cancer disease gene pathwayshas the potential to significantly improve sur-vival for patients with advanced forms of thisdisease. Families with kidney cancer have beenstudied in order to identify the genes underly-ing these disease


Renal  cell  carcinomas  (RCCs)  ac-count  for  nearly  2%  of  all  adult  cancers  worldwide,  with  an  esti-mated  210000  newly  diagnosed  cases  annually,  occurring  principally  in  de-veloped  countries  (1).  They  constitute  approximately  85%  of  renal  cancers,  which in the United States are the sev-enth most common malignancy in men and the 12th most common malignancy in women (2). Within the 1997 Heidel-berg  classification,  the  most  common  subtypes  of  RCC  are  clear  cell,  papil-lary, and chromophobe, accounting for 70%–80%,  14%–17%,  and  4%–8%  of  RCCs, respectively (3,4). Each subtype of  RCC  is  associated  with  a  different  prognosis. Clear cell RCC has the worst prognosis, with a 5-year survival rate of 44%–69%, and it accounts for 94% of metastatic  RCC  (5–9).  Papillary  RCC  has a 5-year survival rate of 82%–92% and  accounts  for  4%  of  metastatic  RCC,  whereas  chromophobe  RCC  has  a  5-year  survival  of  78%–87%  and  ac-counts for 2% of metastatic RCC (5–9). In  addition,  oncocytomas,  benign  le-sions that account for 3%–5% of renal epithelial  neoplasms  in  adults,  can  be  mistaken  for  RCC  at  imaging  and  ac-count for 4%–10% of nephrectomies in which RCC is suspected

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) afflicts upwards of 50,000 patients annually.1 Most of these patients will present initially with localized disease, managed with surgery, but unfortunately, nearly a third will develop recurrence and succumb to their disease. ccRCC incidence has increased uniformly over the past 30 years, associated with stage migration toward lower stages, likely due to the increased detection of lesions incidentally. However, there has not been commensurate improvement in survival. ccRCC tumors have variable natural histories, and genetic strategies have been largely unhelpful in identifying patients with higher or lower risk for recurrence due to the overwhelming association of this cancer with von Hippel– Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene inactivation.2,3


Kidney tumors are estimated to be diagnosed in more than 270,000 individuals every year worldwide.1 More than 65,000 new diagnoses and approximately 13,680 patient deaths as a result of tumors of the kidney and renal pelvis were projected in the United States for 2013.2 In the United States, 15% to 20% of individuals present with lymph node metastases and a similar percentage have distant involvement at the time of diagnosis.3 In the metastatic setting, renal cancer remains largely incurable. The majority of malignant kidney tumors are renal cell carcinomas (RCC) and approximately 70% are RCCs of clear-cell type (ccRCC).4
















